[MUSIC]
>> Kyle: Next step in our readme.
let's define a slightly,
let's put a few more values in here.
So let me come up with 15 and
two and 98, and seven, okay.
I just added some extra values.
I've now lost my ability to know what that
running total will be but we'll cheat and
love JavaScript tell us
what the total ought to be.
Okay, so if that was our list, we might
want to exclude some items from the list.
So the readme suggests.
That we want to filter the array and
exclude all of the odd numbers.
So how are we gonna exclude
the odd numbers from our list if
we start out without a list?
Let's make this a little easier.
Let's start this out with this array here.
>> Kyle: And then let's perform
the operations, like we're doing.
So right now,
we have arr = arr.map with foo.
>> Kyle: So
all I need to do is split those out so
we're dealing with separate lines now.
All right, so
let's add an additional step in here.
Which after before we
are mapping the functions.
We wanna look at the values themselves and
filter out any of those
values that are odd.
So how do we do that?
>> Speaker 2: Write a function that.
>> Kyle: What utility am I gonna reach for
if I need to do an exclusion?
>> Speaker 3: Reach for filter.
>> Kyle: I'm gonna reach for
filter, right?
So I need to do an exclusion
I'm gonna call arr.filter.
And I'm gonna need a predicate, a function
to pass in that returns true or false.
Remember before in our slides
we passed in and it is odd.
And it returned true if the value is on.
Is that the one that we wanna use?
>> Speaker 2: We might
use zero instead of one.
>> Kyle: We actually want
the negation of the is odd don't we?
We want an isEven.
So we could write our own is even.
But another functional programming
technique is to observe.
That is even is just a composition of
the negation with the isOdd function call.
So let's assume I had an isOdd.
That's all I had.
>> Kyle: Remember,
the way it works is to mod by two and
say, that it's gotta be equal to one.
So let's say, I only have an isOdd,
could I make an isEven?
Yeah, I could also from a functional
programming perspective and I had
functional utilities that did composition
this would end up being really easy.
Because you could make a function
that just negates a Boolean.
But if I wanted to make an isEven.
>> Kyle: One way of making is to
actually do the modules calculation.
The other way of doing it is
to call a negation of is off.
>> Kyle: Does everybody see that?
That's doing it manually.
>> Kyle: Or I can look at that pattern and
say, you know what,
I do that an awful lot.
I negate my Boolean
utilities an awful lot, so
I'm gonna make myself a compositional
pattern that automatically lets me take in
a function, call it with a value,
and negate its return response.
So let's just pretend that
we have one like that.
Compose neg is what we'd call it.
I could say, isEven is equal
to compose neg with is odd.
>> Kyle: So that would produce me a new
function that is called is odd and
negated it's result before
returning it back to me.
You see how that could end
up being a useful utility
in my functional programming library.
But only if that was a pattern
I ended up doing a lot.
So that's what functional
programmers have done.
They've done enough functional programming
and they've run across enough of these
compositional patterns that they've said
here's the common ones that we're gonna
provide to you and
they gave them a bunch of fancy names.
All I'm suggesting to you is that
you can start with nothing and
build yourself up, a little set of these
things that you are regularly using.
That's basically what I've done.
That's what I've made use
of function programming.
That's a way of getting at the same
principles of functional programming.
Instead of coming at it from
the other direction and
having to learn all the academic stuff.
Okay?
And there are tons of really great
functional programming
libraries out there, RAMDA,
Bacon JS, several other ones out there.
So if you do wanna go the route of just
using someone's predefined library and
you wanna take on the task of learning
some of those more sophisticated
terminology and techniques and what
patterns, functional program are to use.
That's a great next step
from what I'm teaching.
But I hope that I'm teaching you that
there is a way to get some of the benefit
here without having to go
through all of that effort.
That's personally how I've woven
functional programming techniques in.
Alright, so let's just assume
we're gonna have an isEven.
We're just passing an isEven.
However you end up defining it,
we wanna filter.
So I can end up doing a reassignment here,
as I'm doing, or
this can all just be a set of chains.
So arr is the chain of those two commands.
>> Kyle: So do we see how that works?
Let's just double-check to make
sure I didn't mess something up.
I need, I won't be able to run that
because I haven't find as you can see, so
let's make one just for testing purposes.
>> Kyle: Uh-oh.
>> Speaker 3: [INAUDIBLE].
>> Kyle: I did, didn't I?
Sorry.
>> Kyle: All right, so
that's telling us that it's 208.
Let's just sanity check that.
We wanna add up only the even,
so 52, 108, 110.
>> Kyle: Yeah 208.
There we go.
Okay, so 208's our expected end result.
All right, the last step in this
exercise and then we'll wrap up.
>> Kyle: We've already done the last step.
The item that I wanted to call
your attention to is number nine,
now we can try to stretch our brains into
thinking, how would we write tests for
all this composition?
We're visually looking at it and saying,
I can tell you that the end
result is supposed to be 208.
How would you write tests for this?
>> Kyle: That's not a question I'm
expecting a concrete answer to,
it's a rhetorical for
you to ponder as we go forward.
Because functional programming does end up
creating some very powerful expressions of
our programming, but I think you will
find as I have found that when you use
functional programming techniques and
you try to put those into your traditional
testing frameworks,
you might find some incompatibilities.
>> Kyle: So pondering how you are going
to test the end result of these
different things.
Are you going to test
only the end result or
are you gonna test each layer
of all this composition?
Those are questions
that you should ponder.